# rm and rmdir:-

> ## rmdir

**rmdir** command is used remove empty directories from the filesystem in Linux. The rmdir command removes each and every directory specified in the command line only if these directories are empty. So if the specified directory has some directories or files in it then this cannot be removed by *rmdir *command.

**Syntax:**

```
rmdir [-p] [-v | --verbose] [--ignore-fail-on-non-empty] directories ...
```

**Example 1:** This will first remove the child directory and then remove the parent directory.

```
rmdir -p mydir/mydir1
```

**Example 2: Remove the directories mydir1, mydir2, and mydir3, if they are empty. If any of these directories are not empty, then an error message will be printed for that directory, and the other directories will be removed.**

```
rmdir mydir1 mydir2 mydir3
```

> ## rm

- rm stands for remove here. rm command is used to remove objects such as files, directories, symbolic links and so on from the file system like UNIX. To be more precise, rm removes references to objects from the filesystem, where those objects might have had multiple references (for example, a file with two different names). By default, it does not remove directories.

SYNTAX:-

```
rm [OPTION]... FILE...
```

- Let us consider 5 files having name a.txt, b.txt and so on till e.txt.

```bash
$ ls
a.txt  b.txt  c.txt  d.txt  e.txt

Removing one file at a time
$ rm a.txt
$ ls
b.txt  c.txt  d.txt  e.txt

Removing more than one file at a time
$ rm b.txt c.txt

$ ls
d.txt  e.txt
```

**Note:** No output is produced by **rm**, since it typically only generates messages in the case of an error. **Options:** **1\. -i (Interactive Deletion):** Like in [cp](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/cp-command-linux-examples/), the -i option makes the command ask the user for confirmation before removing each file, you have to press **y** for confirm deletion, any other key leaves the file un-deleted.

```bash
$ rm -i d.txt
rm: remove regular empty file 'd.txt'? y

$ ls
e.txt
```

**2\. -f (Force Deletion):** **rm** prompts for confirmation removal if a file is **write protected**. The **-f** option overrides this minor protection and removes the file forcefully.

```bash
$ ls -l
total 0
-r--r--r--+ 1 User User 0 Jan  2 22:56 e.txt

$ rm e.txt
rm: remove write-protected regular empty file 'e.txt'? n

$ ls
e.txt

$ rm -f e.txt

$ ls
```

## Important

## sudo rm -rf Syntax

The `sudo rm -rf` command is often avoided by users and cited as a dangerous command. The command syntax is:

```
sudo rm -rf <directory or file>
```

Below is a breakdown of each part of the command:

- `sudo` - elevates a user's privileges to the root user. Allows removing root-owned files and directories.
- `rm` - Linux command for [removing files or directories](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/how-to-remove-files-directories-linux-command-line).
- `-r` - The option indicates recursive removal and helps remove non-empty directories.
- `-f` - The option allows removal without confirmation, even if a file does not exist.
- `<directory or file>` - The path of a directory or file to remove.

Use the command to remove files or non-empty directories where the owner is root.
