# less and more:-

## less:-

Less command is a Linux utility that can be used to read the contents of a text file one page(one screen) at a time. It has faster access because if file is large it doesn't access the complete file, but accesses it page by page.

For example, if it's a large file and you are reading it using any text editor, then the complete file will be loaded to main memory. The less command doesn't load the entire file, but loads it part by part which makes it faster.

**Syntax :**

```bash
less filename
```

**mostly used Options :**

> -E : causes less to automatically exit the first time it reaches end of file.\
> -f : forces non-regular file to open.\
> -F : causes less to exit if entire file can be displayed on first screen\
> -g : highlight the string which was found by last search command\
> -G : suppresses all highlighting of strings found by search commands\
> -i : cause searches to ignore case\
> -n : suppresses line numbers\
> -p pattern : it tells less to start at the first occurrence of pattern in the file\
> -s : causes consecutive blank lines to be squeezed into a single blank line

### `less` lets you navigate upwards as well as downwards.

That's the most important difference, but there are many others. `less` provides numerous features beyond those in `more`. You can press `H` in `less` and it will show you its abbreviated help, explaining how to use its various interactive features.

Most common are `Spacebar` or `Page Down` to go down one screenful of text and `B` and `Page Up` to go back up one screenful of text. All four arrow keys work (though the up and down arrows are the ones most often useful).

`less` also differs from `more` in some ways that pertain to performance, resource usage, and accommodating unusual terminals
